So before talking about WebAuthn,
that's the most important API
that we will cover today,
let's talk a little bit and test federated
login, at least once, what is that?
That using OAuth you can use
many providers, that is,
login with GitHub,
login with LinkedIn, okay?
But yeah, that's kind of I mean,
if you're using OAuth 2.0
with single pages applications,
it's a little tricky, okay?
Because you need to open a URL that is not
under your page, so it can be a pop up or
you need to get out of your single
page application, then go back.
But fortunately, there are a couple of
providers, actually two, Google and
Apple, that they're providing already
a very simplified version of that,
where you actually don't need
to implement OAuth yourself.
One is sign in with Google.
In this case, okay,
it's a whole system mechanisms
just signing your website with
different techniques with Google.
It depends on the browser that the user is
using and the platform if it's Android or
if it Googly,
it's a Google based platform, note,
the experience that you will get with
sign in with Google will be different.
Okay, sign in with Apple
is also interesting, but
we're not going to work with sign in
with Apple today for two reasons.
The first one,
is that it doesn't work on local host.
So testing it needs a server,
a real domain.
So, a step that we are not taking today.
And the second one, is that you
need an Apple developer account.
That means you need to pay $99 per year.
So, as the website owner, okay,
not as a user, as a website owner,
you need to get some keys, to have
security things, that you need to get
the same account as when you
are publishing apps to the App Store.
Even if you are not publishing
any app to the App Store, okay,
you need that account.
I am not going to force you
into paying that account today.
So that's why also there are not so
many websites out there
with sign in with Apple.
So when you compare how many websites
are using sign in with Apple,
you will see that if you have
the largest one probably yes, but
if you have a small website,
yeah, you don't do that.
So, when you have sign in with
Google you see something like this,
probably you have seen these kind of
pop ups and we're going to see those in
our brochure in a minute and sign in
with Apple has an interesting idea.
Implement that also, that's why you
also need to have an account with them.
So it's a more complex process internally,
because when you apply sign in with Apple,
you're also applying for
this hide my email
thing available in iOS and
Safari on the Mac.
The idea is that when you're
implementing sign in with email,
Safari will show you a native
dialog to the user, saying hey,
do you wanna sign in with your Apple
account, your current account.
And I will share your email with this guy,
with this provider,
with this website or if you want,
I can create a fake ID for
you for this website and it creates
a fake email, it hides my email.
So it will give us as
a website an email that works,
but that email goes through Apple.
So it's an anonymous email.
That then will be
forwarded to the user and
the user at any time can say you know
what, I wanna delete that fake email,
I don't wanna receive more
email from these website.
So then as a user you delete that and
of course the website we'll
never know who you was.
Okay, so that's hides my email and
it's available only if you
implement sign in with Apple.
Okay, make sense?
Yeah.
>> Is OAuth also an identity
provider like OpenID or SAML?
>> No, OAuth is some kind
of a slow protocol, okay?
So the idea of OAuth version 2, that's
the one that everyone is using right now,
it's not actually a way to identify or
authenticate users.
It's more a way to move
identity information between
different providers, okay?
And it's one protocol available.
So the quick idea, it has to do more with
authorization than with authentication,
but the whole idea is that I'm in my
website, let's say coffeemaster.com.
And I wanna open a login form but
in google.com, so
I don't manage google.com,
I only manage coffeemasters.com.
So how can we do that?
How can we handshake,
how can I coffeemaster.com
can have an agreement with google.com?
So they will login you and
they will pass credentials to me,
but that flow of data is of 2.0,
okay, so here's how you do that.
It's one spec, actually the one that
is being used a lot these days.
In fact lemme tell you something,
10 years ago, it was pretty common,
you were actually logging in with Twitter,
with Google.
In other websites and other apps and you
were actually typing your Google password,
your Twitter password on other apps and
they were storing in their servers your
Twitter password or your Google password.
Of course that was a security issue, okay?
Because when they have a data breach,
now they don't have only access to your
Twitter account or to your account on that
website, but also Twitter or Google and
your passwords were actually everywhere.
Then the different providers
invented this idea of app passwords.
I think that Google still has
that somewhere it's still hidden,
with app passwords you can create
a password just from one app.
So they can get into your account, but
it's a password just for that app and
you can even narrow permissions if
someone is using that password.
But anyway, to avoid that problem,
we came up with the solution of OAuth.
We are not going to use OAuth, but we
are going to use sign in with Google right
now, that will give us a simple way to do
that, so we can understand how that works.
And how can we adjust our web services and
our database to work
with federated logins.
Okay then you can add
on top of that OAuth or
sign in with Apple or any other provider.